Hello.
Welcome to Introduction
to Web Kit Development,
Session 128.
My name is Chris Blumenberg.
I'm a software engineer on
the Safari Web Kit team.
So let's get right to what
you're going to learn here.
First, I'm going to briefly
discuss what is Web Kit.
I'm going to go into
the basics of Web Kit.
Then I'm going to talk about
what can be done with Web Kit.
Web Kit is not just about web
browsing and I'll show you that.
Then I'm going to spend the majority
of my talk answering common questions.
These are questions that are asked
by developers who are new to Web Kit.
So what is Web Kit?
Well, when people think of Web Kit,
they usually think of Safari.
It's the engine inside of Safari.
It makes Safari render web pages.
It's a framework.
It's available to Cocoa and
Carbon programs on Mac OS X.
Its responsibility,
its main responsibility
is to display HTML,
images, plugging contents such as Flash,
QuickTime, et cetera.
It's basically an API wrapper
around Web Core and JavaScript Core.
Web Core is our open source
engine based on KHTML and
JavaScript Core is our open source
JavaScript interpreter based on KJS.
And as of this week,
Web Kit's open source too.
So what can be done with Web Kit?
Well, I'm going to answer that
question by telling you what
has been done with Web Kit.
So here are some really cool apps.
I'm a little biased,
but they're pretty cool, I think.
I'm going to focus on a few of them here.
First one is Dashboard.
I probably don't need to
tell you what Dashboard is,
but what's cool about Dashboard
is its use of Web Kit.
When I think of displaying
a web page in a program,
I think of a white square
inside of a window.
But in Dashboard,
a web page is the actual program
or what they call widgets.
Then there's Mail.
Mail uses Web Kit for displaying
email messages and in Tiger,
it uses Web Kit for editing
and composing email messages.
It does that using our Web Kit editing
feature which we added in Tiger.
And then lastly,
I'm going to focus on this program,
Coliqui, which is an IRC client which
uses Web Kit to display IRC text.
It's a really cool app.
In fact,
I think it's become the IRC client
of choice on the Web Kit team.
So with the examples I've shown up here,
the ones that I focused on,
I want to draw this point that it's
not just about browsers anymore.
You can do things with Web Kit that's
not just about web browsing.
So developers ask a lot of questions.
Being on the Web Kit team,
we are bombarded with questions.
But that's okay.
We actually like that
because that reminds us that,
you know,
people are using our technology.
So what I've done today is I've compiled
a set of questions that come from
developers who are new to Web Kit.
So let's start off with how
can I create a web view?
Well, before I go into that,
I'm going to discuss what a WebView is.
WebView is Web Kit's main view class.
In Safari, it's basically responsible for
displaying everything but the Chrome.
So to create a web view,
there's several ways to do that.
You can create it in Interface Builder.
Basically, in Interface Builder,
it's just a drag and drop procedure.
From code,
you can do it using Objective-C,
our Cocoa API.
Or you can do it using our C API.
So here's a code example
of how to do it with Cocoa.
Basically, you just call the standard
initWithFrame method on WebView.
And then once you've done that,
you add the WebView to the view
hierarchy using addSubview.
And here's how you do it in Carbon.
It takes a few more lines of code
to actually do that in Carbon.
The main thing you have to
do is call hi-webview-create.
That creates the WebView.
You call hi-view-setframe.
That sets the frame of the WebView.
And then you call hi-view-add-subview
to add it to the hierarchy.
So I discussed how to create a web view.
Now let's go to loading
content in the web view.
Now, loading a URL,
telling a web view to load a URL is
a pretty straightforward thing.
But developers tend to ask,
how can I load content from memory when
I don't have a URL for that content?
Well, before I go into that,
I need to discuss what a web frame is.
See, every web view has one
or more web frames.
The web frame's main responsibility
is to manage the load of content.
It holds that content or that data
with the web data source class.
It displays that content with
the web frame view class.
So in this simple example
to the right here,
we have a simple web page.
We have actually one web frame,
which is what we consider the main frame.
And in this example where
we have multiple frames,
we have one frame for the mainframe,
one frame,
one webframe for the child frame,
and another webframe for the
frame to the right there,
which is another child
frame of the mainframe.
So loading in WebView.
This is done.
This is-- you instantiate this.
You initiate this on a web frame.
and there's several content types
that you can ask WebFrame to load.
You can ask it to load an NSURL request,
which is basically a
wrapper around an NSURL.
You can ask it to load an NSString,
which is most likely going
to be an HTML string.
You can pass it NSData.
You can ask it to load NSData,
which is basically your data in memory,
regardless of the MIME type.
Or you can pass it a Web Archive.
And Web Archive is a new data type,
which we unveiled in Tiger and
I'm going to discuss that later.
And lastly, you can hook this all up in
Interface Builder so that
you can have a text field,
which is basically a URL field.
Once the user hits return,
it will automatically send that
URL to the WebView and we're
going to show you that as well.
So to get back to the question,
how do I load content from memory
with NSData in my web view?
The first thing you want
to do is make sure-- well,
a good thing to do is make sure
that the web view can handle
the MIME type for the content.
And you do that using the
canShowMIMEType method.
So once that passes,
you get the mainframe
out of the web view.
And then you call the load
data method on the mainframe.
And just in case you're curious,
this is the way you do
it with NSURL request.
You basically get the
mainframe as we did before.
Then you create a request
using request with URL.
And then you ask
mainframe to load request.
So let's go to a demo of
how you can do all this in
IB without any code whatsoever.
And then we're going to
bring on Kevin Decker.
Thanks, Chris.
So --
As Chris mentioned,
there's a number of ways you
can use this in your programs.
You can use it from Carbon,
you can use it from Cocoa.
In fact,
we're going to show you a way that
requires hardly any lines of code.
In fact, it requires no lines of code.
And so, we decided to put a little
game for this at my expense,
of course.
And we're going to show you how
to do this in one minute or less.
And I happen to have a stopwatch here.
Everyone can see it?
And I think this totally
calls for some music.
So, I'm going to open up
my iTunes library here.
And I think this will do quite nicely.
So, I'm going to try to do
this in one minute or less.
We'll see what happens.
So, here goes.
Oh, I don't want iTunes.
Oh, off to a bad start.
Whatever.
Oh, ah, okay.
The clock's a good thing to have.
Okay, well I can have five seconds, guys.
Come on.
The first thing you want to do is
link into the Web Kit framework.
It's very important.
Otherwise, your app will not work.
Kevin, I don't think you're going
to be able to do this.
I think you're right.
Library, frameworks, Web Kit.
Let's just give up, man.
Boom, put that in there.
Resources.
Build it.
Now we want to design our interface.
We have to design it in 35 seconds.
So, we're going to drag a web view here.
Well, I think it's actually 30 seconds.
There we go.
We probably want some buttons.
How about like back, forward.
We'll label them in 10 seconds remaining.
Where's the butt?
Actually,
I don't think you're going to do this.
At this point, I'm convinced.
So, let's say take your old string from,
forward, back.
and back is going to be go back, forward.
This is a really,
really ugly web browser,
but I promise it works.
Take your old string from, oh, okay,
well no, no, no, it's done, it's done,
it really is.
There we go.
So my buttons really do work.
There you go.
So if I can do this in one minute,
imagine what you can do
in one month of your time.
So there you go.
Thanks, Chris.
Thank you.
Okay, thanks, Kevin.
So discuss how you can create a web view.
We've shown you how you can
load content in web view.
Important thing to do when you're loading
content in a web view is to display
progress or have a progress bar working.
This is what many developers ask.
How can I make a progress
bar work with a web view?
Well, tracking progress in WebView is
done using notifications.
Once you observe these notifications,
you'll get a notification when
WebView has started loading.
You'll get several notifications
as progress has updated while
it's loading a web page.
And then you'll get a finished
notification which tells
you that it's done loading.
And within any of these
callbacks or at any time,
you can call the estimated progress
method on WebView which will
tell you the progress completed.
So here's some code which
observes a notification.
In this example, we're just observing the
progress started notification,
but you should probably observe
the other notifications as well.
It just doesn't fit.
and then this is our callback.
So in our callback we call the estimated
progress method on the web view and
simply we set that as the value on the
progress bar and that's all you got
to do to get a progress bar working.
Now the--something I want
to mention is that,
you know,
you don't have to have a progress bar.
You can use the estimated progress method
to display any kind of progress with
any kind of widget in your application.
Okay,
so we got content loaded in our WebView.
We're displaying progress.
Related to progress is
making a URL field work.
Now, that may seem like a simple thing.
You know, you tell WebView to load a URL,
you know what the URL is.
You can just tell your
URL field to update.
But sometimes it's not that simple.
For example, if a user clicks on a link,
you need to be notified or told that
WebView is now visiting that link.
So the question is,
how can I make a URL field
update as I follow links?
Well, this and many things that you'll
see today is done using delegates.
WebView's behavior is controlled,
basically controlled by delegates.
They respond to informal protocols,
which means that you can pick
and choose which delegate
methods you want to respond to.
And lastly,
these things are managed on the WebView.
You set and you get them on the WebView.
So before I go into
making a URL field work,
I need to discuss a tricky topic,
which is provisional and committed.
This is a concept that
is held on the web frame.
So I'm going to go into this slowly
and give you a metaphor as well.
So first of all, a web frame load,
when it started,
it's considered provisional.
Once data is received,
that load is considered committed.
So what this means is
until data is received,
the web frame will be displaying
the previous web page.
And if that load,
the one which was provisional, succeeds,
then that becomes the web
page which is displayed.
So to manage this,
to manage that content and that data,
the web frame has two
data sources actually.
It has the provisional data source
for the load that we've started and
we're waiting to receive data on.
And it has the committed data source,
which is either the previous web page or
the web page that has just begun loading.
So here's a metaphor for you.
Let's just say you ordered a new iMac.
That iMac is considered provisional
because it takes several weeks,
days, perhaps months to receive
that iMac in the mail.
Meanwhile,
You're using your,
you gotta keep using your old iMac.
You don't want to throw it
out while you're waiting
for the new iMac to arrive.
But once that new iMac does
arrive and you have it set up,
that becomes your committed iMac.
And you can toss the old iMac away.
So,
to get back to making a URL field work,
this is done using the
Web Frame Load Delegate.
The Web Frame Load Delegate,
which is something that
is implemented by you,
is informed when a load has
started in the Web Frame,
when it's become provisional,
when that load has redirected, you know,
if there are server
redirects or what have you,
when that load becomes committed,
in other words, when the content for that
load is now displayed,
and when the load has
finished or when it's failed.
The Web Framework Delegate
is also informed when a page
title or page icon is received,
because this is part
of the loading process.
It's informed when the page
is scrolled to an anchor.
That usually happens after
the page is done loading,
but you need to know this notification
because the URL has actually changed.
You get the pound and
the anchor after it.
And it's also informed
when JavaScript is ready.
This is when you can start interacting
with the JavaScript engine.
So this is a sequence of events here.
These are the sequence of calls
to the Web Frame Load Delegate.
First you'll get the start message,
which is the load is-- the
provisional load has started.
Then you'll get the committed message,
which means that load is committed.
And then you'll get the done message,
which means the frame is done loading.
And then lastly,
you can get the close message,
which indicates that the frame
is no longer used whatsoever.
So we can break this
down a little further.
Before you get the committed message,
and after the load is started,
you can get several
server redirect messages.
Even further,
you get the page icon and page
title messages after it's committed.
And then after it's done,
you can get the anchor scroll message
and the client redirect message.
So here's an implementation of
the Web Frame Load Delegate.
In this example, I've implemented
didStartProvisionLoadForFrame.
This is the didStart method.
And in this case,
what I'm doing is I'm checking that
the frame in question is the mainframe,
because we only want to update the
URL field when it's the mainframe.
So in this case,
we want to show the provisional URL,
the URL in question,
the URL that we've begun loading.
That's what we want to
display in the URL field.
We want to do the same exact thing
for did receive server redirect
for provisional load for frame.
You'll get several of those messages all
while that load is still provisional.
Now, if that provisional load fails,
you know, if no data is received
and there's a failure,
you want to go back to
showing the committed URL.
That's the pre--in other words,
the previous web page.
Same thing if the load fails
after it's become committed.
That's what the did fail load
with error message is about.
You want to show the committed URL.
And if it succeeds,
you get the did finish load for frame.
You want to go back to
showing the committed URL.
And if there's a redirect or rather
an anchor scroll in the page,
you'll want to show the
committed URL which will
reflect the anchor on the URL.
And this is the implementation of
those methods that we were calling.
So showProvisionalUrl
calls the provisional data
source method on the frame.
And that'll get us back
the provisional URL.
and then show committed URL calls
the data source method on the frame,
which is the data source.
This is the committed data source.
So let's do a demo of
making a URL field work.
I didn't know I loved HTML.
30 seconds.
30 seconds?
Yeah, there you go.
OK, so I want to open up a demo here.
and this demo, go ahead and run it.
This is what you'll get with basically
our last example except I expanded
the text field a little bit more.
I had a minute and 30 seconds
instead of one minute.
But in this case, you know,
when I go to let's say like the
QuickTime site or if I go to,
you know,
www.google.com and I click on news,
notice this doesn't change.
So this is what we want to fix.
How are we going to do it?
We're going to do it
with these delegates.
So as you saw from Chris' slides,
here's the exact same methods
that he had in his slides.
Show provisional URL and
show committed URL.
So what we want to do is for--and
the delegate methods we have here,
they're basically not implemented.
The skeletons are there but
they're not implemented.
And so we want to wire that up.
And so it's really, really simple.
And so what we want to do is
we want to say if--I'm sorry,
if WebView main frame because
we're interested in the main frame,
that's our point of interest.
which is equals frame.
and then we want to say
self show provisional URL.
Okay.
And I'm just going to copy this because
I don't want to keep on typing it.
And now,
we're going to do show provisional
URL for this one because we
want to get all the URLs.
As you navigate to a link, you know,
in case things change, you know,
from start to finish,
you want your address
field to get all those.
So that's what we're
going to do for this case.
So if it was a provisional failure,
we want to show what that failure was.
So we'll say show committed URL.
And we have a couple more down here.
When the frame finally did finish,
we want the committed URL.
And lastly,
we want the-- if that actually failed,
so.
Colons.
Oh, colons are good, yeah.
There we go.
Run it.
Okay.
So now if I go to QuickTime, we get that.
And I'll also go back and
let's go to the Google example.
And I can click on news.google.com.
And you notice it
automatically switched to this.
So that's really cool.
I mean this is a feature
all browsers have.
But let's do more.
Let's do something cool.
I mean after all, this is Mac OS X.
Let's step beyond the, you know,
a traditional web browser for a minute.
And you know,
I see these core image transitions,
Chris, and I thought wouldn't it be just
really neat so that when I click a link,
you know, I get one of these whiz-bang
core image effects.
Well, our delegates are a point of
interest because that's the
right time and the right place.
So we know when to start the transition.
We know when to prepare
for the transition.
And so let's just do that right now.
So in the case of when we
started a provisional load,
I happen to have code that is all set
up that says self-setup transition.
And I
And then down here,
when we finish loading,
we want to say-- this is-- when
the mainframe is done loading,
we want to start the transition.
So we just want to say
self start transition.
And there's one more
thing I want to do here.
I want to say self set
document has content yes.
So this example will be online
so you can see how it works.
So now I'll go to the QuickTime site.
There you go.
You know, so I'll go to, you know,
Hickstar.com.
There you go.
Just like that.
That easy.
So, thanks.
Thanks, Kevin.
Okay, so,
so far we've discussed basically
how you can get a simple
Web Kit app up and running.
Now, after you've done this,
you're going to want to
start customizing Web Kit.
And that's when many developers ask,
how can I change what happens
when a link is clicked?
Well,
this is done using yet another delegate.
This is the Web Policy Delegate.
Basically, the Web Policy Delegate is
consulted when WebView is about
to make navigation changes.
When it is consulted,
the Policy Delegate has three
possible decisions to make.
It can decide to use that navigation,
which means continue
with that navigation.
It can decide to ignore that navigation,
which means, you know,
let's stop right here.
Or it can decide to
download that navigation,
which would basically cause the
URL to download at that point.
Unlike other delegates in Web Kit,
this one is asynchronous,
so you don't have to decide right away.
If you want to display a sheet to ask
the user what he wants to do or she,
you can decide later because we pass
you a listener object which you can
retain and respond to at any time.
So it's consulted in
three different times.
Before the load starts, for example,
if the user clicks a link,
right after the user clicks the
link before the load starts,
it'll be consulted.
If the load does start,
if you choose to process that click,
after the server has responded
and the MIME type is received,
it'll be consulted at that point.
And unrelated to the first two,
it'll be consulted when your application
has been asked to open a new window.
A web page can ask you to do that,
and at that point you can decide
whether you want to or not.
So here's a sequence of events
when a user clicks on a link.
So in Web Kit, we receive the link,
we receive the event for
the link being clicked.
We request the load from the delegate.
In this case,
the delegate has decided to, yes,
use the request.
So then we start the load.
Once the MIME type has been received,
we ask the delegate,
can we use this content
based on the MIME type?
And the delegate, in this case, says yes,
use it.
So at that point,
the content is then loaded.
So this is the kind of most
common sequence of events
with the Web Policy Delegate.
So here's an example of how you
can intercept clicked links.
This is the decide policy
for navigation action method.
This is the method that gets consulted
right after a link is clicked.
So in this example,
if the action was a link clicked,
the delegate here is deciding
to ignore the click link,
which means stop doing anything.
And then this is when you want to
start doing your specialized action.
This is how you customize a click link.
Now if the user clicked
on something else,
such as a form control or something else,
we're deciding to use it, which means,
yeah, allow that to process.
And here's the decide
policy for MIME type method.
Here's an implementation of that.
And in this example,
we're downloading the content
based on its MIME type.
So what we're doing is
we're checking the web view.
Can you show this MIME type?
If not, if so, yes, display it.
If not, download it to a file.
And lastly, here's the decide policy
for new window action.
This gets called every time a web
page asks you to open a new window.
In this example,
we've implemented a very simple,
if not overly simple,
version of pop-up blocking.
In this case, we're saying, you know,
never allow any windows to open.
which some of you might like.
Okay, so let's keep going down this
customization route here.
Many developers ask,
"How can I prevent WebView from
loading certain URLs?"
This is done with yet another delegate.
This is the Web Resource Load Delegate.
It's consulted and informed of the
load progress of sub-resources.
Sub-resources are images,
JavaScript files, CSS files,
plugin content, etc.
The Web Resource Load Delegate can decide
which of these resources gets loaded,
and it can actually decide which
URL these resources are loaded from.
So here's a sequence of events for
the Web Resource Load Delegate.
You'll get a message,
"We'll send request," which
is telling you that it's going
to send out that request.
You'll get the received response message,
which tells you that the server
has responded and gives you
the response of the server.
You'll get several
received data messages.
And then you'll get the done message,
which tells you that the
resource is downloading.
So here's an example
of we'll send request.
In this example, we're preventing all
non-file URLs to load.
So this is an example of an application
that only wants to load local content.
It doesn't want any
sort of remote content.
So what we're doing is simply,
if the thing is not a file URL,
we're returning nil,
which means don't send out that request.
Uh, and if it's--if it is a file URL,
then we're saying, "Yes,
handle that request by returning it."
So let's continue to go down
this customization route.
And what I'm going to go into now is
how can I add a context menu item,
which is a common question.
This is done using the Web UI delegate.
The Web UI delegate has
several responsibilities.
It manages window-related activities,
such as opening windows and
setting the sizes of windows.
It's responsible for displaying
JavaScript status text,
if you have a status
bar in your application.
It's responsible for
displaying JavaScript alerts,
because JavaScript can ask
you to display an alert panel.
It's responsible for
managing window Chrome,
because a web page can decide which
toolbars and such are displayed.
It allows you to customize context menus,
which is what I'm going to show you.
And the Web UI delegate
has control over dragging.
That is dragging to and from a Web view.
So here's an example of how
you add a context menu item
using your web UI delegate.
This is the context menu
items for element method.
So what it does is, first it checks,
did the user click on a link?
Sorry, that's wrong,
but I should correct this and say,
this message is called every
single time the user control clicks
or right clicks on a web view.
So the first thing it does is,
it checks if the user has
control clicked on an image.
If so, what we're doing is we're
taking the default menu items,
these are the menu items that
Web Kit would display if we
didn't implement this method,
and we're simply adding an open
image and preview menu item.
And we're adding that to the
list of default menu items.
And so from now on,
whenever the user clicks on an image,
they'll get the list of
Web Kit menu items plus the
open and preview menu item.
Now if the user didn't click on an image,
they'll just get back the
standard Web Kit context menu.
So let's do a demo of how to
add a cool context menu item.
Okay.
Thanks, Chris.
So our last demo here, we started with,
you know,
we have this really cool transition.
And I don't know about you guys,
but the page scroll is kind of cool,
but it's not my favorite transition.
I want to be able to choose
from different transitions.
And so wouldn't it be neat
to be able to right click?
This would be a cool thing
for the context menu to be
able to right click and,
you know,
choose which transition you want.
So let's go to the UI delegate
that Chris just mentioned.
Let's open it up.
And as you see,
this is what you'll start with.
You'll start with an empty UI,
an empty context menu items for element.
And this is where you can put
whatever you want in here.
So in our case, I have a little--just
to save some typing,
I have a little snippet of code
that puts the list of all the
core image transitions available.
for the context menu item.
There it is.
And so we make sure that we're
not clicking on an image or we're
not clicking on a link and if so,
then display this show transitions thing.
So I'll build this, run it and let's see,
use page transition.
There it is.
It was really that simple.
So let's do a dissolve.
Let's go to--let's go back
to the QuickTime thing.
There it is.
Let's do a--maybe a diagonal swipe.
Let's go to Mac OS X.
Let's go to,
the ripple is my favorite transition.
So I'll go here because
there's a lot of color.
And let's do ripple.
And I'll click this.
There it is.
And yes,
we can even do it in slow motion.
So... The shift key.
The shift key.
There you go.
The demo would not be complete
without the slow motion thing.
So... And it also wouldn't be complete
without this copy machine thing.
We even searched the Internet to,
you know, for at least two minutes to
find this copy machine sound.
So when I click on theater...
Yeah, there you go.
So it was really simple.
You can, you know,
you just take this method,
put whatever you want in it and
that will show up on your contacts.
So there you have it.
Thanks, Kevin.
Yep.
So let's get back to the UIDeli again.
And another thing it can do,
which I mentioned before,
is customize dragging.
Well,
the Web UI delegate is consulted when
a user drags to and from a WebView.
When dragging to a WebView,
The Web UI delegate can decide
which of these actions can occur,
whether loading can occur,
an editing-related action can occur,
or whether we can leave it up to
DHTML to define which action occurs.
Now when dragging from a WebView,
the Web UI delegate can decide
which things can get dragged,
whether or not images, links,
a selection can get dragged,
or we can leave it up to DHTML to
define what gets dragged.
So in the Web UI delegates--excuse
me-- in the Web UI delegate,
the dragging APIs,
when they refer to destination,
that means dragging to a WebView.
When we refer to source,
that means dragging from a WebView.
And this is all controlled via bit masks.
So in this example,
we have drag destination
action mask for dragging info.
This gets called periodically as a
user drags something over a web view.
So in this example,
we're saying only editing operations
can happen in this web view.
If you have an editor which uses Web Kit,
you probably don't want
it to go and load URLs.
So you know,
when a URL is dragged over the web view.
So this is the action that you'll
And this is how you can
customize dragging from.
This is the drag source
action mask for point method.
This gets called when the user begins
to drag something from a web view.
In this example we're saying only images,
links, and selections can be dragged.
Basically we're not going to allow
DHTML to define what gets dragged.
So I mentioned editing before.
Let's go into how you can
actually enable editing.
Well, first of all,
a WebView can be made editable
as of Tiger and I think
Panther possibly as well.
Yes.
And this editing is WYSIWYG.
Basically, the user can modify the web
page just as it's editing text.
And all while this is happening,
the underlying web page
is getting modified.
You can use WebView editing to
compose HTML documents from scratch.
Or you can use it to modify existing
web pages if you want to do that.
and the thing I want to mention
today is that WebView uses,
excuse me,
Mail uses WebView editing in Tiger,
so you're probably already using it.
So this is how you enable editing.
Yep, it's pretty much that easy.
All you do is call setEditable.
This can be done at any
time and after doing so,
your web view will become editable.
So related to editing somewhat
is preventing selection.
This is a common question
that developers ask.
And this is done using
the Web Editing delegate.
The important thing to note about the web
editing delegate is that it can be called
whether the web view is editable or not.
Basically,
it's called when the user makes
selection changes or when the user
modifies the document in some way.
What I mean by modify,
I mean add content, remove content,
or change style.
Now, when the web editing
delegate is consulted,
it can decide to prevent these operations
from occurring or it can modify how
these editing operations are made.
So to disable selection,
this is pretty simple as well.
You just basically return no in the
should change selection DOM range,
select the DOM range method.
This gets called every time the user
is trying to change the selection.
You just say no,
which means don't allow the
selection to ever occur.
So once you've got your
web page up and running,
you've got it customized,
most apps that use Web Kit and
WebView allow you to print that WebView.
So let's go into that.
It's a pretty straightforward thing.
Basically, you use the NSPrintOperation
method-- excuse me,
object in App Kit.
The important thing to note about that,
though, is that you don't pass the
WebView to NSPrintOperation.
The WebView has scroll bars,
and it clips the content.
So if you pass the
WebView to NSPrintOperation,
you'll just get that
little visible snippet.
What you want to do instead
is pass the document view.
The document view is the view inside the
web view which is actually displaying
the content and it's completely--and
it's maybe larger than the web view.
So this is how you do it.
You get the document view
out of the frame view.
You pass that to NSPrintOperation,
and then you call runOperation
on the operation to print it.
It's that simple.
So somewhat related to printing
content is saving web content.
So how can I save web content to disk?
Well, you do that using Web Data Source.
Web Data Source, as I mentioned before,
is responsible for managing the
data of a frame or a web view.
It holds the main content data.
When I refer to main content data,
I'm basically referring
to the actual HTML page.
But it also holds the sub-resources.
These are the things that
I mentioned before as well.
These are the images, the JavaScript,
these are things that the
main content has requested.
So there's two ways to
save data in Web Kit.
You can save just the main content data.
This is equivalent to
saving the page source.
Or you can save the main content
data plus all the sub resources.
So you basically,
you have an all in one solution there.
And so how do you do that?
How do you save the main content
and all the sub resources?
Oh, I meant to slide that in.
Oops.
That's done using Web Archive.
A web archive is a new data type.
It's as of Tiger.
It holds the main content data plus
all the associated sub resources.
Basically, it allows you to view web
content completely offline,
all in one, all together.
So it can be used to save
all data as one single file.
And it's also used as
a page board format.
In fact,
our editing APIs and mail and everything
else that uses WebView editing is
using web archives for copy and paste.
So here's an example of how
you save just the main content.
You do this by calling the
data method on the data source.
Once you've got the data,
you can just write it out to the file.
And here's how you save everything.
This is how you save a web archive.
And it's pretty similar.
You just call the web archive
method on the data source.
And then you call the data
method on the archive,
which returns you the data,
the encoded data of that archive.
And then you write that out to disk.
So let's do our last demo of how
to edit and save a web archive.
Thanks, Chris.
So we have this application
here called Blot I want to use.
And I want to use Blot to do two things.
I want to first show off the web archive.
And second, we're also going to use
Blot to edit a web page.
And so I thought to myself, you know,
self,
what would be a good web page to edit?
I'm in the mood to face
somebody's blog maybe.
And a certain coworker
of ours runs a blog.
So let me just open up this blog.
And this is--here we go.
So we're in Blot.
This is basically what
you would get in mail,
an editable web view.
And so I'm going to click right here,
the improved web view or Web Kit.
I'm going to say like,
"You have been owned."
And we'll just edit this out here.
We don't need that.
Let's also go over here
and this is Leet speak,
by the way.
And so I think Dave has a picture
of the ACID2 graphic that he fixed.
It's down here somewhere.
So, ah yes,
this will be a good area right here.
So we'll just take this, cut this off.
And we'll get rid of this stuff.
Hopefully I won't break this.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, we can leave that.
And we'll say this site -- oh,
I don't want a link though.
This site has been
defaced by Super Kevin.
And then, oh yeah,
we probably want the copyright sign,
so we'll take that, put that there.
Now we'll save this site,
the new -- we'll save
it as a web archive.
And what this means is, you know,
he's got style sheets here,
he's got images.
If I just save just the source and try
to open up this and I'm not online,
I'm not going to get anything.
So web archive,
think of it as like thin versus,
you know, fat.
You have everything.
So everything you need.
So let's call this Dave_owned.
So we'll save that.
I really didn't mean to
put that in my documents,
but that's okay.
So I can open this up in Safari,
but just to demonstrate,
there's no smoke and mirrors here.
Let me disable the
network on this computer.
So we'll, maybe we can just do built-in
Ethernet and let's put in off.
Apply now.
Open up this.
And then we'll see that it's working.
So we're
and... Oh!
It didn't work.
Well, it was supposed to work.
It worked well enough.
It worked well in practice,
but I'm not sure why this is.
Your blog is resistant to hacking.
Okay.
That's what it is.
So, okay.
Well, that's basically the idea is
that you get all the resources,
they're saved in this file and
you have everything you need.
So, there you go.
Thank you, Kevin.
Okay, so I think we've answered,
hopefully I've answered all the
questions that I have up here today.
So if you have any questions,
you can ask them right
now during our Q&A.
Or you can join the
Web Kit SDK dev mailing list.
That's at lists.apple.com.
So I also want to stress that
Web Kit can do much more.
This is just the introduction
in Web Kit which allows you
to access the actual bits and
structure of the web page.
You can add JavaScript classes so that
you can have JavaScript classes which
run native code in your application.
You can have Web Kit and Netscape plugins
that work in Web Kit and much more.
And to learn about that,
you'll want to go to the
advanced Web Kit session
which is just right over here,
Presidio, in about 30 minutes.
So here are all the apps again
that I showed you before.
I think you may have learned enough today
to do one of these or something similar.
So now you can do it.
Forgive me for the cheesy
slide but I think it's true.
So for more information,
you can go to this site.
I'm sure you've seen it before,
developer.apple.com/wwdc2005.
And here are the sessions again.
I already mentioned
Advanced Web Kit Development,
which is going to start
right after this one.
And there's also
Safari for Web Designers,
for those who want to know how
to develop web pages for Safari.
I think that one's at 2 o'clock.
So if you have any questions and you
don't want to send it to a mailing list,
you'll probably want
to email Mark Malone.